7.28.1x is the first of a three-part lecture series on molecular biology taught by Professor Stephen Bell and Professor Tania Baker of MIT.

# Lecture Notes

## Table of Contents
- [**Lecture 01: DNA Polymerase**](#lecture-01-dna-polymerase)
- [**Lecture 02: Measuring DNA Polymerase Activity**](#lecture-02-measuring-dna-polymerase-activity)
- [**Scratch**](#scratch)

## Lecture 01: DNA Polymerase

### Notes

1. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid.
2. DNA polymerase catalyzes the addition of deoxynucleoside triphosphates (dNTPs) to a growing DNA strand.
3. The most common form of the DNA double helix is B-form DNA.
4. Each strand of DNA is a polynucleotide (polymer of nucleotides).
5. A nucleotide has 3 components: 5-carbon sugar, phosphate group, and one of 4 nitrogenous bases.
6. The 4 nitrogenous bases of DNA are: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T).
7. The nitrogenous base is always attached at the 1' (1-prime) carbon of the 5-carbon sugar.
8. The phosphate group is at the 5' carbon of the 5-carbon sugar, and connects to the 3' carbon of the 5-carbon sugar in the neighboring nucleotide.
9. The 5-carbon sugar is called deoxyribose because it's [missing a hydroxyl group at the 2' carbon] (https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/fb/The_difference_between_ribose_and_deoxyribose.png), which is present in ribose.
10. Nucleotides in DNA are called deoxyribonucleotides because they contain deoxyribose.
11. Nucleotides are linked in the DNA strand by phosphodiester bonds, where the phosphate group of one nucleotide binds to the 3' carbon of the neighboring nucleotide.
12. The sugars and the phosphate group make up the DNA backbone.
13. The carbon numbering is used to describe the directionality of the two DNA strands: 5' to 3'
14. In drawings where the 2 DNA strands are shown one above the other, the top (Watson) strand is usually drawn in the 5' to 3' orientation, where the 5' carbon of each sugar is on the left. The bottom (Crick) strand is drawn in the 3' to 5' orientation, where the 3' carbon of each sugar is on the left.
15. The nucleotides are connected through covalent bonds in the backbone.
16. The two DNA strands in the helix interact through multiple hydrogen bonds between complementary bases on opposite strands.
17. Two complementary bases interact through multiple hydrogen bonds to form a unit called a base pair.
18. Hydrogen bonding contributes to the specificity of base pairing with adenine (A) preferentially pairing with thymine (T) through 2 hydrogen bonds and cytosine (C) preferentially pairing with guanine (G) through 3 hydrogen bonds.
19. ThYmine and cYtosine are pYrimidines characterized by their single-ring structure.
20. Adenine and guanine are purines characterized by their double-ring structure.
21. Non-complementary base pairs e.g. GT do not form strong hydrogen bonds and disturb the helix structure.
22. Each turn of the double helix measures approximately 10 base pairs.
23. Pi-pi interactions between bases in the helical stack (base stacking interactions) contribute to the stability of the double helix.
24. The regularity of the helical structure forms two repeating and alternating spaces, called the major and minor grooves. These grooves act as base pair recognition and binding sites for proteins.
25. The major groove contains base pair specific information while the minor groove is largely base pair nonspecific.
26. 

### Key Terms

1. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)
2. dsDNA (double-stranded DNA)
3. double helix
4. B-form DNA
5. polynucleotide
6. nucleotide
7. 5-carbon sugar
8. phosphate group
9. nitrogenous base
10. 1' (1-prime) carbon
11. 5' carbon
12. 3' carbon
13. 2' carbon
14. deoxyribose
15. ribose
16. hydroxyl
17. deoxyribonucleotides
18. phosphodiester bond
19. DNA backbone
20. 5' to 3'
21. Watson strand
22. Crick strand
23. covalent bond
24. hydrogen bond
25. complementary base
26. base pair
27. specificity of base pairing
28. adenine
29. cytosine
30. guanine
31. thymine
32. base stacking
33. pi-pi interactions
34. major groove (of DNA)
35. minor groove (of DNA)
36. x
37. DNA polymerase
38. catalysis
39. deoxynucleoside triphosphate (dNTPs) [deoxynucleoSide vs deoxynucleoTide?]
40. assay
41. tautomer
43. processivity (of DNA polymerase)
44. DNA replication
45. protein structure
46. central dogma
47. 

### Questions

1. How does DNA polymerase catalyze the addition of dNTPs to a growing DNA strand?
2. What is the central dogma of biology?
3. **Does phosphate in dNTP or DNA have OH?**

## Lecture 02: Measuring DNA Polymerase Activity

### Notes

1. 

### Key Terms

1. 

### Questions

1. 


## Scratch

```{r}
print('Hello world!')
```
